Trump wears a mask on a visit to a military medical center.
President Trump on Saturday wore a mask in public for the first time, after repeated urging from aides that it was a necessary message to send to Americans resistant to covering their faces.
Mr. Trump wore a dark mask affixed with the presidential seal during a visit to the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, where he planned to visit wounded troops. He was surrounded by Secret Service agents and others also wearing masks.
Anticipation over whether he would wear a mask had been building, after the president had repeatedly dismissed suggestions that he wear a mask, frequently appearing in public spaces without one, mocking those who did and ignoring public health rules in several states.
But as the pandemic has spread to states with large numbers of Republican voters, Mr. Trump had signaled more recently that he was more open to masks, and told reporters he planned to wear a mask on the visit to the medical center. Before going there, he stopped to speak with reporters at the White House.
“I’ll probably have a mask, if you must know,” Mr. Trump said. “I think when you’re in a hospital, especially in that particular setting where you’re talking to a lot of soldiers and people that in some cases just got off the operating tables. I think it’s a great thing to wear a mask. I’ve never been against masks, but I do believe they have a time and a place.”

Weeks ago, the president took a mask off before seeing reporters during a tour of a Ford plant in Michigan, in violation of factory policy, which he said he did to avoid being photographed with it on. Last month he refused to wear a mask at a factory in Maine that produced coronavirus testing swabs, forcing the manufacturer to dump products made during a demonstration for the president. And in May, he did not wear a mask during a visit to a Honeywell mask factory in Phoenix, Ariz., despite signage in the building asking visitors and workers to do so at all times.
Masks were scarce at recent Trump campaign events in Oklahoma, Arizona and South Dakota.

In contrast to Mr. Trump’s reluctance, a growing number of governors, both Republican and Democratic, and even Vice President Mike Pence have taken up the cause in recent weeks. Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona and Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia are among the chorus of Republican officials who have encouraged their constituents to actively cover their faces in public.

In Louisiana, Gov. John Bel Edwards on Saturday said almost all residents must wear a mask in public. Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, a Republican, recently issued a similar order.

Senators Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Mitt Romney of Utah have also called on the president to wear face coverings, at least as a symbolic gesture. Gov. Andrew Cuomo has also implored the president to wear one.

In an interview this month, Mr. Trump said he “would wear one if I were in a group of people and I was close,” adding that he “sort of liked” the way he looked.

“It was a dark black mask,” he said at the time, “and I thought it looked OK. I looked like the Lone Ranger.”
As the national death toll mounts and the coronavirus continues its surge across the Sun Belt, the governor of Louisiana on Saturday ordered bars to close and most residents to wear a mask outside. The state had an early outbreak that then receded, before a recent spike in cases and hospitalizations.

South Carolina announced its highest single-day total for coronavirus cases on Saturday, recording more than 2,200 infections; its previous record was set on July 4 with 1,854 new cases. More than 22 percent of tests in the state came back positive on Friday — the highest positivity rate for the state yet, according to health officials.

North Carolina, Oregon, Arkansas, Hawaii and Alaska also recorded single-day highs Saturday. More than 60,000 new coronavirus cases were announced in the U.S. on Saturday, more than any day of the pandemic except Friday, when the country recorded more than 68,000 — setting a single-day record for the seventh time in 11 days.  
The country’s seven-day death average reached 642 on Friday, up from 471 on July 5, but still a fraction of the more than 2,200 deaths the country averaged each day in mid-April, when the outbreak in the Northeast was at its worst. And eight states set single-day death records this week: Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and Tennessee.

South Carolina and Florida were among the first states to reopen and are now among the worst-hit states. Florida hit daily records twice in the last 10 days, and has surpassed 10,000 daily cases five times in that period, announcing 10,360 new infections on Saturday.

In South Carolina, National Guard troops were expected to be called in to help hospitals in the state handle the increased strain on the health care system. The Department of Health and Environmental Control reported the first death of a child in the state, according to a news release. The child was younger than 5 and from the Midlands region of the state, according to the release, which did not otherwise identify the child.

South Carolina has had more than 54,000 coronavirus cases and more than 950 deaths as of Saturday, according to a New York Times database.

Gov. Henry McMaster announced that the sale of alcohol in all bars and restaurants would be prohibited after 11 p.m., beginning Saturday night. Mr. McMaster said he hoped the move would help reduce transmission among young adults. More than 20 percent of the state’s confirmed cases are in people ages 21 to 30, health officials said.

Florida and Texas closed bars again last month, and bars across Las Vegas and Reno shut down for the second time at midnight on Friday. Public health experts have said the virus has spread quickly through bars because people linger, drink and often have to shout or get closer to hear each other over blaring music.

Louisiana has more cases per capita than all but New York and New Jersey, and on Friday, the state recorded more than 2,600 positive tests, more than any day since April 2.

“It’s become clear to me, especially after the numbers that we saw yesterday, that our current restrictions are not enough,” Mr. Edwards, a Democrat, said at a news conference announcing the order. He said that more than 10 percent of the people who were being tested were testing positive.

The governor said that Louisianians over the age of 8 must wear a mask when they are not able to socially distance from other people, unless they have a health condition. Local parishes can opt out, but only if they hit certain requirements, Mr. Edwards said, noting that only three were in that position on Saturday.

Several states and cities are rolling back their reopenings or even contemplating locking down again.

In Texas, which reported record numbers of daily cases four times this week, Gov. Abbott signaled Friday the possibility of a new economic “lockdown” if the state cannot curtail its outbreak.